## Abstract
For the past century, movies have been one of the main sources of entertainment.
But that’s not a surprise is it? Indeed, they’re magical. What do we mean by that? Well they have the remarkable ability
to transport us to different worlds, reveal our deepest emotions, and leave lasting imprints on our memories. Whether
it's the edge-of-your-seat thrillers, heartwarming dramas, or mind-bending science fiction, movies captivate audiences
globally.

In fact, we’d like you to pause a moment to think of your favorite movies. Which ones have shaped your childhood? Is
there a character that you resonate with on a deep level? In fact, let’s appreciate how in only a few hours a movie
manages to create “friendships” that we will remember forever. We are all unique individuals, yet we are united in the
laughter, the tears and the fond memories that movies bestow upon us.

The creation of a movie is an art that is one of the most complex. Picture this! The writer imagines a story, the
director gives life to it, the actors embody their characters and then the sound engineers and graphic designers craft
the beauty of the final product. It is the symbiosis of these talented people that may yield a cinematic masterpiece
which we movie-goers can truly savor.

Movie-making is complex! Notably because of our diverse preferences and expectations. We want novelty, yet we find
comfort in the familiar faces of our favorite movie stars. Some movies reach billions in box office revenue, yet they
don’t get the best ratings. We want to feel immersed in a compelling narrative, yet we constrain movies to only a few
hours: more than three is excessively long. Some crave intense action, while others are bothered by it. We desire to
escape, but also want to relate. The complexity lies in the intricate dance between these varied desires. What one
person cherishes as a cinematic masterpiece, another might dismiss as a flop.

And yet, in the center of this labyrinth of preferences emerges a fascinating phenomenon - the blockbuster. These
cinematic titans manage to resonate with diverse audiences, achieving financial success and cultural impact across the
globe. Do these movies have common characteristics?

As we immerse ourselves in the enchanting world of cinema, it becomes evident that the definition of a "perfect" movie
is as diverse as the people watching them. A great movie must navigate this complex landscape and can not please
everyone. However, movie-success is not random. James Cameron, for instance, has written and directed three of the four
highest grossing films: Titanic, and the two Avatar movies. Has he cracked the secret? If you work in the cinematic
universe then your career goal is to get that secret formula. You, my reader, are probably not one of these people. Then
why should you care what makes a great movie?
The Secret Formula

![Secret Formula](https://images2.9c9media.com/image_asset/2019_6_13_4680921c-e70b-4056-a8a8-a9d88f903bd9_jpg_1920x1080.jpg)

## Why should you care?

As we unravel the insights embedded in the data, we hope that you will embark on a journey of introspection. We
encourage you to dive into the realms of your cinematic preferences. Our analysis looks at global trends, as such you
may completely disagree with our findings, and that’s okay. Our mission is to give you a better understanding of the
cinematic universe and your interest in it. 
